{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\deflang1031{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2 Arial;}{\f1\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}{\f2\froman\fprq2 Garamond;}{\f3\froman\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fprq2 System;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs20 
\par \pard\qc\f1\fs24 `\cf1\ul\b\i\f2\fs40 allegro\cf0\ulnone\b0\i0\f1\fs24 `\cf1\b\i\f2\fs40 
\par \cf2\i0 
\par  What's that?\cf0\i 
\par \pard\qr\b0\i0\f3\fs24 `\cf1\ul\b FAQ\ulnone\b0 ` 
\par \pard\cf0 Stated very briefly,\b\i  allegro\b0\i0  is an 
\par \tab `\cf1\b autonomous\b0 `, 
\par \tab\tab `\b platform-independent\b0 `, 
\par \tab\tab\tab `\b object oriented\b0 ` 
\par \tab `\b Database system\b0 `.\cf0 
\par It can also (but not exclusively) be operated as a `\cf1\b Client/Server System\cf0\b0 `. 
\par 
\par This brief statement contains five concepts that should be explained in some more detail. 
\par \fs18 (You can also click on the blue words.) 
\par \pard\qr Back to the \cf1\fs24 `\b Overview\b0 `\cf0 
\par \pard\f2 
\par \b A Database System \b0\f3 (as opposed to a purpose-built library software suite)\f2 
\par \f3 This means that \i allegro\i0  is not a specialized application package but it can be configured for many different tasks that require the capturing, saving, managing, manipulation, retrieval, and evaluation of data. This kind of software has to have a number of features, among which are these: 
\par \f2 
\par \pard\li720\b\fs22 Parametrizability\b0\fs24 
\par \f3\fs22 Data structures cannot be "hard-wired" but have to be \i configurable\i0  and \i parametrizable\i0 . In particular, \i allegro\i0  is not confined to library-specific data and their idiosyncrasies, but it can cover a wide spectrum of structures and functions.\fs24 
\par \pard\f2 
\par \pard\li720\b\fs22 Multi-user capability 
\par \b0\f3 An \i allegro\i0  database can be run on all platforms, incl. DOS and Novell, with simultaneous access from any number of workstations. There are no separate single-user and multi-user versions.\fs24 
\par \pard\f2 
\par \pard\li720\b\fs22 Resilience 
\par \b0\f3 All transactions (data input, corrections, etc.) are logged in a separate file. In the event of a severe crash leaving the database in a corrupt state, it can be restored to the state immediately before the crash.\fs24 
\par \pard\b\f2 
\par \i allegro\i0  is autonomous\b0 
\par \f3 No additional software, like a standard database platform, is needed to run \i allegro\i0 . This means: No extra cost or efforts. Simply stated: \i allegro\i0  does everything by itself.\f2 
\par 
\par \b\i allegro\i0  is platform-independent 
\par \b0\f3 MS-DOS, UNIX, Linux, \f4 Solaris, Windows XP or '7\f3  - \f4 A\f3  database can reside on any of these platforms. Not only this, but the file structure is exactly the same in all cases. Therefore, one need only copy a database to make it usable on \f4 one of the \f3 other patform\f4 s\f3 . If the same disk is accessible from two platforms, like DOS and Windows, both can access a database simultaneously. (The problem of different character sets is solved by a  tranparent table-driven mechanism.) Convenient client programs exist only for DOS and Windows (from '95 up). 
\par To publish a database on CD-ROM is as simple as copying it. Browser programs APAC (for DOS) and \i alcarta\i0  (for Windows'95 etc.) are free for distribution, i.e., buyers of the CD pay no license fees. 
\par \f5\fs20 
\par \b\i\f2\fs24 allegro\i0  is object-oriented, not `\cf1\ul relational\cf0\ulnone `\b0\f5\fs20 
\par \f3\fs24 An \i allegro\i0  database may hold records of various types. The behavior of a record, as for example its indexing or its appearance in the display, is governed by the parametrization, not by built-in functions. The Windows programs have a macro language called `\cf1\ul\b FLEX\cf0\ulnone\b0 `. This can equip records with all sorts of functions. 
\par The `\cf1\ul\b Parametrization\cf0\ulnone\b0 ` concept makes \i allegro\i0  an \b open system\b0 : it is not a Black Box, but an industrious user can configure everything down to the minute details, including the conversion of data from outside sources into the local format or of \i allegro\i0  local data into other formats. 
\par \f2 
\par \b\fs28 Is \i allegro\i0  a Client/Server System? 
\par \b0\f3\fs24 Yes and no. A database server named \b\i avanti\b0\i0  is part of the package. This is normally employed only for WWW access. There's a long `\cf1\ul\b Link list\cf0\ulnone\b0 ` of databases brought to the Web in this way. The avanti server also serves as an intermediary for  Z39.50 access. 
\par One \i may \i0 install the \b\i avanti\b0\i0  server in an intranet but it is not \i necessary \i0 . Much more often, the  "monolithic" programs of the DOS  and Windows platforms are used in Novell or NT networks. They have a lot more functions and more power than a Client/Server system because they access the database directly and exploit the power of their workstation in a much better way. In particular, it would be quite clumsy to install a client/server system on a \i single user \i0 workstation. It is \i possible\i0 , but slower and a much bigger job to administer. Where necessary, \b\i avanti\b0  \i0 can, however, access a database simultaneously with the monolithic clients. This means, \i live \i0 databases can be accessed via the WWW . 
\par Besides \i avanti\i0 , there's a second method to make databases accessible by Web browsers in the internet or intranet. This rough-and-easy method is called "`\cf1\ul\b RuckZuck\cf0\ulnone\b0 `". It is explicitly meant for quick shots and available only on Windows-95/98 / NT. No time-consuming work in Perl or similar scripting languages is needed for this method, but it uses a ready-made package of  HTML files and some FLEX makros and parameter files. With this, a database can be online within an hour. Like everything else, this method is configurable and extensible. 
\par 
\par \b\f2\fs28 Is \i allegro\i0  fully documented? 
\par \b0\f3\fs24 For the administrator, there is the `\cf1\ul\b Systemhandbuch\cf0\ulnone\b0 ,` (in German). The Windows programs, \b\i a99\b0\i0  and \b\i alcarta\b0\i0 , come with many help texts making orientation easy - they have hyperlinks like HTML files. You are just looking at one of these files. The big question-mark button at the lower left, between the [Index] and [Find] buttons brings up the documentation at any time, or type 'h' on the command line. There's not just text but also functions. Under the heading of `\cf1\ul\b Supervisor Functions\cf0\ulnone\b0 ` you find all the necessary assistence for the management of databases, including backup copies and restoration. 
\par 
\par \b\f2\fs28 Is \i allegro\i0  something for small and medium databases? 
\par \b0\f3\fs24 That would be an understatement. By now, there are many databases exceeding 1 million records, the biggest is beyond 7 millions and running on a Novell server. 
\par \f2 
\par \b\i\fs28 allegro\i0  is not a library system 
\par \b0\f3\fs24 ... as was stated above. Being freely parametrizable, \i allegro\i0  can be employed for library tasks but it was not developed with just that in mind. The package comes with a standard parametrization enabling a library to begin cataloging right away and establishing a local OPAC. There are more parameters for functions like circulation and book ordering. 
\par 
\par 
\par \fs28 You want to know more about the system and its concept? There's another text telling the `\cf1\ul\b background story\cf0\ulnone\b0 `.\f2\fs24 
\par 
\par 
\par ?Link list=~start http://www.allegro-c.de/ac-dbs.htm 
\par ?autonomous=h >allegro is autonomous 
\par ?platform-independent=h >allegro is platform-independent 
\par ?object oriented=h >allegro is object-oriented 
\par ?Database system=h =A database system 
\par ?allegro=~start http://www.allegro-c.de 
\par ?Client/Server System=h >Client/Server 
\par ?Systemhandbuch,=h handbuch 
\par ?Overview=h doku 
\par ?background story=h backg 
\par ?FAQ=h ac0-9 
\par ?relational=~start http://www.allegro-c.de/a-r.htm 
\par ?RuckZuck=h ruckzuck 
\par ?FLEX=h flex 
\par ?Parametrization=h ac10 
\par ?Supervisor Functions=h super 
\par 
\par }
 