{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\deflang1031{\fonttbl{\f0\fscript\fprq2 Comic Sans MS;}{\f1\froman\fprq2 allegro New Roman;}{\f2\froman\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\qc\cf1\b\i\f0\fs28 The Buttons\cf0\b0\i0\fs24 
\par \pard\qr\b\f1 -->\b0 `\cf2\b\f2\fs20 General\cf0\f1\fs24 `\b0 
\par \pard\b 
\par There's more help on`\cf2\ul\f2\fs22 Keyboard functions\cf0\ulnone\b0 `and the`\cf2\ul\b Menu\cf0\ulnone\b0 `.\f1\fs24 
\par \pard\qr\f2\fs20 You don't have to know everything, but where F1 is! 
\par \pard 
\par \b General remark.\b0  Press the right mouse button on any button to toggle the display field between wide and normal. 
\par 
\par \cf2\b  [Index] \cf3\b0 
\par \pard\li720 The indexes encourage browsing (up and down, line by line). Result sets can be built directly from the index. At any time [Alt+i] opens and closes the index window.  
\par [Alt+j] opens and closes a second index window which has all the same functions. 
\par \pard 
\par \cf2\b  [Left] / [Right] \cf3\b0 
\par \pard\li720 These two buttons in the upper left corner work much like in a Web-Browser: they browse backwards and forwards in the history list of the current session. 
\par \pard  
\par \cf2\b  [\i Door\i0 ] \cf3\b0 
\par \pard\li720 This is the "Door to the World" - hence the \b W\b0 . This button invokes an external program. The system administrator can attach any program to this point. The program called is, by default, the file door.bat. 
\par \pard 
\par \cf2\b  [\i Broom\i0 ] \cf3\b0 
\par \pard\li720 This rather unsusual symbol opens a little menu from which you can delete the bookmarks, the history list, or all the result sets of the current session. 
\par \pard 
\par \cf2\b  [Add bookmark] / [\b0\i number of  bookmarks\b\i0 ]\cf3\b0 
\par \pard\li720 Like in a Web-Browser, you can "bookmark" every record you see in the display. The button with the number at once opens your current list of bookmarks. 
\par Booksmarks and History list are persistent, which means they are saved upon exit and preserved for the next session. Unless you use the broom to clear everything out. 
\par \pard 
\par  \cf2\b [Display] \cf3\b0  
\par \pard\li720 Toggle between tagged and formatted record display. 
\par \pard 
\par \pard\fi-720\li720  \cf2\b [Alt+t] \cf3\b0 Write current record into E.ADT , and call external editor. Upon return, the changed record can be re-read. 
\par \pard 
\par  \cf2\b [Alt+k] \cf3\b0 (invisible Button) 
\par \pard\li720 Copy a field into the reserve store and vice-versa. If a hierarchical subrecord was marked: copy it behind the record in which the highlight bar is currently located. 
\par If the reserve store is currently on display, the selected field is copied into the current record (you can see it in the display field, when the tagged display is activated). 
\par \pard 
\par  \cf2\b [Alt+v] \cf3\b0 
\par \pard\li720 Mark/Move: for hierarchic subrecords; inactive if there are none (a rather rarely used feature). 
\par   1. Select a #01 , Press Alt+v to mark it. 
\par \pard\fi-720\li1440   2. Move the highlight bar into the subrecord (\i into \i0 it, not on its #01) behind which you want to move the marked record, then Alt+v to do the move. 
\par \pard 
\par  \cf2\b [Del] \cf3\b0 (on the keyboard) 
\par \pard\li720 Delete the highlighted field or line in the list box  (and copy it to the reserve store) 
\par If a  #01 is highlighted: delete the hierarchic subrecord. The #01 as such cannot be deleted, only edited. 
\par If the result set list is in the listbox: [Del] removes the highlighted result set. 
\par In the brief result set display, [Del] marks a line for deletion. The button [DEL] will then remove all lines marked like that. This is quite useful for the history list. 
\par \pard 
\par 
\par  \cf2\b [Save] \cf3\b0 
\par \pard\li720 Save the current record into the database. 
\par If it was an Offline record, the offline file will be one record smaller after this. 
\par If it was a dateabase record, its original version will still be available as a copy. Using the [Old/New] button, you can view it, and use [Save] to restore it to its former state! 
\par \pard 
\par The opposite of "SaveRec" is "Delete". This, however, is not on a button but in the Menu, to the left of "?". 
\par 
\par  \cf2\b [Delete / Inactivate] \cf3 (on the menu)\cf2  \cf3\b0 Delete (online) or Inactivate (offline) the current record. 
\par  \cf2\b [Activate] \cf3\b0 Re-activate a deleted or inactivated record. 
\par \pard\li720\b Offline record\b0 : Only after "File / EXIT" the record will finally disappear. 
\par \b Online record\b0 : [Del Record] actually deletes it. Re-activation is possible during the current session, just using the[Activate] button. 
\par Deleted records are displayed on a pink background. 
\par \pard ********************************************************************* 
\par  \cf2\b [\ul R\ulnone eserve] \cf3\b0  Display the reserve store to select and copy field content from there. 
\par  \cf2\b [\ul R\ulnone ecord] \cf3\b0   Back to the current record (if something else is in the listbox) 
\par \pard\li720 (These buttons alternate, depending on what's on view) 
\par \pard 
\par  \cf2\b [Format (\ul y\ulnone )] \cf3\b0   View the list of all tags and their meanins; alternates with 
\par  \cf2\b [Prompt (\ul y\ulnone )] \cf3\b0  Activate the prompt list. (Used to enter new records in question/answer fashion). 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\fi-720\li720\cf2\b  [\i Printer\i0 ] \cf3\b0  The printer button sends the entire content of the display field to the printer. Normally, everything will then be printed as-is (WYSIWYG). If, for example, you press it now, you get a printout of this text. 
\par \pard 
\par  \cf2\b [List of results]  \cf3\b0 (Alt+q)\cf2\b   \cf3\b0 
\par \pard\li720 Show the list of result sets of the current session. Select any one of them to re-view it. 
\par \pard\li720\ri851  
\par \pard\fi-720\li720\ri851\cf2\b  [New Record] \cf3\b0  Duplicate the current record. (The current record itself then remains unchanged.) If you so decide, you can enter a new record from scratch. Then, you get the prompt list to start an input dialog. You may also, after the prompt list has started, click on [Input Forms] and enter data using any combination of the forms. 
\par \pard 
\par \pard\fi-720\li720  \cf2\b [Find] \cf3\b0  A dialog box appears into which you may enter search terms for the various indexes. You can specify Boolean operators and qualifiers like date or language (if  available). 
\par \pard\li720 Use F1 for help after the dialog box has popped up. 
\par \pard\fi-720\li720 
\par  \cf2\b [Old/New] \cf3\b0   After any amount of editing, the original record can be reactivated. This button toggles between the original record and the latest version. In the end, the most recent version will be saved. However, if the original record was the one activated at last, nothing happens. 
\par \pard 
\par  \cf2\b [\i Name of current result set\i0 ] / [Alt+w]  \cf3\b0 
\par \pard\li720 The longish button underneath the display field bears the name of the current result set! 
\par Alt+w (for Bro\ul w\ulnone se) opens the result set brief listing. 
\par \pard 
\par  \cf2\b [Alt+u]/[Alt+h] \cf3\b0  (Arrow left / Arrow right) 
\par \pard\li720 Show previous/next record of current result set. It is therefore not necessary to go back to the brief listing every time one wants the next or previous record. 
\par \pard 
\par  \cf2\b [Offline source] \cf3\b0   The offline file is presented for browsing. 
\par \pard\li720 Every online record edited during the session is added to the offline file - and can thus be retrieved later on in the session. Select a record and press [Enter] to make it the current record and have it ready for further editing. 
\par Into the [Show] field of the brief listint you can enter either of two things: 
\par \pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\tx1080 a number: then the list will be shown beginning at this number 
\par {\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}a field tag, ,e.g.. #245: the display line will then begin with this field. 
\par \pard 
\par  \cf2\b [\ul P\ulnone revious] \cf3\b0    The previous offline record is displayed. 
\par \pard\fi-720\li720  \cf2\b [\ul N\ulnone ext] \cf3\b0   The next offline record appears. 
\par \pard 
\par  \cf2\b [InputForms] \cf3\b0 (Alt+#) 
\par \pard\li720 Calls the input form dialog. There has to be a .FRM file containing the specs for the forms. 
\par \pard\f1\fs22 
\par \cf2\b\f2\fs20 [\i Question mark\i0 ] \cf3\b0 
\par \pard\li720 The big question mark retrieves a help page specifically set up for the database. 
\par It is the job of the systems administrator to create this page. It may contain  links to other help pages, thus providing a starting point for all help. 
\par \pard\f1\fs22 
\par \cf2\b\f2\fs20 [AND] / [OR] / [NOT] \cf3\b0 
\par \pard\li720 These buttons are only active if the result set list is in the listbox. Boolean combinations between result sets can be carried out using these buttons. The first set to be combined is always the current set (whose name you see on the long button beneath the display field), the second is the one you select in the listbox. 
\par \pard\qr\f1\fs22 1999-10-08 
\par ?Keyboard functions=h keys 
\par ?General=h genrl 
\par ?Menu=h menu 
\par ?broom=h besen 
\par 
\par }
 