{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\deftab720{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fscript\fprq2 Comic Sans MS;}{\f3\froman Times New Roman;}{\f4\fmodern Courier New;}{\f5\froman\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fmodern\fprq1 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green128\blue0;}
\deflang1031\pard\qc\plain\f2\fs28\cf1\b\i allegro : Data Entry and Editing\plain\f4\fs18 
\par \pard\qr\plain\f5\fs20 `\plain\f5\fs20\cf2\b\ul Input Forms\plain\f5\fs20 `\plain\f4\fs18 
\par \pard\plain\f5\fs20 This tells you all you need to know about editing and inputting of records.\plain\f5\fs24\cf3\b 
\par 
\par Editing\plain\f5\fs24\cf3 
\par \plain\f5\fs20 The currently displayed record is in need of editing - what do you do? There are several functions at your disposal. As soon as any change has been made on the record, the display field background takes on a yellowish tinge, after saving the record by the [SaveRec] button, it turns greenish again. More about the background colors and what they tell is under `\plain\f5\fs20\cf2\b\ul Online-Offline\plain\f5\fs20 `.
\par \plain\f5\fs20\b 
\par a) Normal Editing
\par \tab Select a field (list box on the left)\plain\f6\fs20\b  - Enter - \plain\f5\fs20\b Do the editing\plain\f6\fs20\b  - Enter\plain\f5\fs20 
\par The list box on the left-hand side displays the fields of the current record, with longer fields truncated. Press F5 to view the complete internal record in the display record.
\par Select a field you want to edit in the listbox, then [Enter] - the entire field appears in the write field underneath the display. 
\par Do whatever needs doing, then [Enter] to confirm the editing. Both list box and display will then reflect the changes.
\par If you don't see the tagged data fields in the list box, press [\plain\f5\fs20\ul R\plain\f5\fs20 ecord] or Alt+r.
\par \plain\f5\fs20\b 
\par b) Forms-based editing   \plain\f5\fs20 [more about this see below]\plain\f5\fs20\b 
\par \plain\f5\fs20 Press the \plain\f5\fs20\b Button \plain\f6\fs20\cf0\b [InputForms]\plain\f5\fs20  (bottom line). The first of several forms is opened, and you see which of the fields it covers are already filled. 
\par If you correct something here: press [Enter] for every field separately! TAB will only move the cursor to the next field, unlike with other Windows-typical input forms. 
\par This is for two reasons: 1. Safeguard against mistakes (long fields!), 2. to perform field validation right after entering the field content. There are built-in checks, like for "comma space" in personal names, and there's the possibility of user-defined validations.
\par 
\par \plain\f5\fs20\b c) Delete a field
\par \plain\f5\fs20 Select it, then press the\plain\f6\fs20\b [Del]\plain\f5\fs20  key on the keyboard.
\par \plain\f5\fs20\i Tip: \plain\f5\fs20 The field does not vanish without trace: Use Alt+r (= Button [Reserve]) to get the reserve store list, where you will see the deleted fields. Select, Alt+k, Alt+r  to re-activate it.\plain\f5\fs20\b 
\par 
\par d) Copy individual fields
\par \plain\f5\fs20 Select a field, then \plain\f5\fs20\b Alt+k\plain\f5\fs20 . It will be copied to the reserve store. 
\par As soon as you need it (in any record): \plain\f5\fs20\b Alt+r\plain\f5\fs20   -  select the field  -  Alt+k  -  Alt+r.\plain\f5\fs20\b 
\par \plain\f5\fs18\b 
\par 
\par \plain\f5\fs24\cf3\b Enter a new record
\par \plain\f5\fs20 Press the \plain\f6\fs20\cf0\b [NewRec]\plain\f5\fs20  button or F9. Two options are presented:
\par \plain\f5\fs20\b 
\par a)Copy current record\plain\f5\fs20 
\par Look for a suitable record first, i.e. one that has a few fields you can use for your new record.
\par Then copy it and make the necessary changes.\plain\f5\fs20\b 
\par 
\par b) Enter a new one
\par \plain\f5\fs20 The prompt list appears in the listbox. It consists of the names of fields you probably need to input for your new record. Choose a starting point in this Liste (there can be several for different record types), then [Enter]. The prompting begins: the bar in the listbox jumps to the next line every time you enter something and thus indicates to which field your next input will go. 
\par \plain\f5\fs20\cf0\b [Schema]\plain\f5\fs20  displays the complete list of possible fields; use this if you need to enter a field that did not occur in the prompt list
\par Use \plain\f5\fs20\cf0\b [Record]\plain\f5\fs20  at any time to get the tagged field list in the listbox. Choose a field for editing, press Enter, do the editing, press [Enter] again.
\par Use \plain\f5\fs20\cf0\b [SaveRec]\plain\f5\fs20  to submit the record to the database - only now the various entries will be inserted into the indexes. Use "Deactivate" (in the top menu) to erase a new record before saving. 
\par At the lower right, the button \plain\f5\fs20\cf0\b [Offline Source]\plain\f5\fs20  displays the list of new and corrected (!) records. You find all records there that have been "touched" during the session.
\par 
\par \plain\f5\fs24\cf3\b Use Forms\plain\f5\fs20\b 
\par \plain\f5\fs20 For new input \plain\f5\fs20\i and\plain\f5\fs20  for editing you can switch to \plain\f6\fs20\cf0\b [Forms]\plain\f5\fs20  at any time. In the forms window popping up, choose the appropriate form. The fields already in use can now be edited and empty fields can be filled. 
\par \tab \plain\f5\fs20\b Very important: \plain\f5\fs20 Forms always work in connection with the \plain\f5\fs20\i current record\plain\f5\fs20 , i.e. everything entered will go to the corrent record. Choosing another form does \plain\f5\fs20\b not\plain\f5\fs20  mean that you enter another record!!!\plain\f5\fs20\b 
\par \plain\f5\fs20 \tab \plain\f5\fs20\b Even more important:\plain\f5\fs20  press [Enter] for every field entered or changed - otherwise nothing will happen with your input. Use [Esc] to close the forms window.
\par `\plain\f5\fs20\cf2\b\ul More about forms\plain\f5\fs20 `.
\par \plain\f5\fs20\b 
\par Enter more than one field at a time
\par \plain\f5\fs20 This is useful with cut-and-paste. Copy fields from the display (after F5) or from any other window that shows a tagged display. Then: place the cursor into the write field, \plain\f5\fs20\b Strg+v\plain\f5\fs20 ,  \plain\f5\fs20\b [Enter]\plain\f5\fs20 . Every field has to begin on a new line and with the '#' character.\plain\f5\fs20\b 
\par \plain\f5\fs18\b 
\par 
\par \plain\f5\fs24\b For Administrators\plain\f5\fs24 
\par \plain\f5\fs18 How to design an input system with the  FLEX macro concept.
\par 
\par You need three things:
\par \plain\f4\fs18 
\par 1. One or more help files with Flex-Flips
\par    Beispiel zum Anpassen: `\plain\f4\fs18\cf2\b\ul input.rtf\plain\f4\fs18 ` 
\par    This shows, in the flip lines, how forms are activated
\par 
\par 2. A form file with up to 80 input forms
\par    Example: cat.frm 
\par    (cat = Data base name)
\par    Every form has to have a headline in [...].
\par    Every form can have up to 14 fields.
\par 
\par 3. A call of an input help file  (for example`\plain\f5\fs20\cf2\b\ul INPUT.RTF\plain\f4\fs18 `)
\par    This can always be done with "h input" iin the write field. 
\par    But there are more comfortable ways:
\par    In any RTF help file, you just have to have a flip 
\par    activating the command
\par    h input
\par    Or: set one of the #uX variable, e.g.
\par    #uX0h input
\par    then, input.rtf is called by Alt+0.
\par    To do this, just enter:  0 h input
\par    in the write field, this produces #uX0h input 
\par    which will be preserved for later sessions.
\par 
\par \plain\f5\fs18 The most comfortable way to edit\plain\f4\fs18  INPUT.RTF \plain\f5\fs18 is the WordPad program.
\par But the display field itself can be use, too! Load the file by  \plain\f6\fs18 h input\plain\f6\fs18\b .rtf\plain\f5\fs18   instead of  \plain\f6\fs18 h input\plain\f5\fs18 , then the flip commands become visible and can be edited. 
\par Provided you know RTF, any text editor lile the X editor may also be used. Die  FLEX command lines are at the end of the file and look like this:\plain\f4\fs18 
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs18\b \\par ?\plain\f4\fs18 Normal (Buch)=\plain\f6\fs18 x if diff put\\new\\form B\\form 2\\yesno Speichern? (Nein=weiter bearbeiten, Abbruch=verwerfen)\\if c erase\\input 1\\if y put
\par \plain\f4\fs18 
\par \plain\f5\fs18 The sequence \plain\f4\fs18 "\plain\f4\fs18\b \\par \plain\f4\fs18 " \plain\f5\fs18 is an RTF command and means "New paragraph". It is written automatically by Wordpad or WinWord (which is not recommended).\plain\f4\fs18 
\par 
\par 
\par ?INPUT.RTF=h input
\par ?Eingabe-Formulare=h input
\par ?Online-Offline=h off
\par ?More about forms=h form
\par ?input.rtf=h input.rtf
\par 
\par 
\par }
 