{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\deflang1031{\fonttbl{\f0\fscript\fprq2 Comic Sans MS;}{\f1\froman\fprq2 allegro New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fprq1 allegro Letter Gothic;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 allegro New Roman;}{\f4\fmodern\fprq1 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red207\green44\blue68;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\qc\cf1\b\i\f0\fs28 allegro : The Menu\cf0\b0\fs24 
\par \pard\b\i0\f1\fs22 
\par \pard\qr\cf2 `\ul General\ulnone `\cf0\b0\f2\fs24 
\par \pard\b\f1 The menu has 8 parts:
\par \pard\qr\fs22 `\cf2\ul Index help\cf0\ulnone `
\par \pard\tx709\tx1560\cf2\ul F\ulnone ile \cf3 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i Open another database\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 You have to choose whether you want to look for INI files or Index files (type .?dx). A Windows-typical file selection box comes up for the selection. The database chosen will be opened in a separate and independent window. Therefore, both databases can then be worked with independently. Use Cut-and-paste to transfer records back and forth: select text in the display window (after F5), but copy to the write field - because this is the entry area!
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Save all work\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Save records edited or entered during the current session. (The program keeps track of records touched and not yet saved back.)
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Save result set \i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Save all records in the current result set (i.e., those which have been edited earlier in the session)
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Offline file -> Database\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Load all offline records into the database
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Save display as ...\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 The contents of the display field may be saved as an .RTF file (for use with WinWord or other software)
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Print current display\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Print out whatever the display contains (same as Printer button)
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i DOS Program\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 PRESTO will be started (if you have the DOS programs). In PRESTO, use F4 to export results; upon return, you get the exported records as a result set.\b 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i\f3 Load\f1  \f3 external\f1  \f3 file\f1 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0\i0 The file EXTERN.DAT will be loaded as an offline file
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Load another offline file\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 In a file select box, you can choose an .ALG or .ADT file to load as another offline file. 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i EXIT\i0 :  \b0 Get out.\b 
\par \pard\tx709\tx1560 
\par \cf2\ul E\ulnone dit \cf3 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i Select all\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Selects the whole contents of the display field for cut-and-paste. You can also click into the display area and use Alt+a, then Alt-c to copy it into the clipboard.\b 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i Extern \i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Activate the external editor and load the current record into it. After returning from the external editor, you are asked to confirm if you want the edited record read back.
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Read 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0\i0 Read the file E.ADT (= result of external editing)
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i NEW Record\i0 :
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Produce a new record. You can then choose to copy the current record or to begin enterin a completely new one. Same as [NewRec] button or F9.
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Input Forms\i0 :
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Bring up the form editor. Requires the existence of a .FRM file. This operates on the current record, it does not open a new record! (see NEW for that)
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Mark/Move (Subrecords)  \i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Mark and move hierarchival subrecords (only if you have such)
\par \fs18 First, select the #01 field of a subrecord, then mark it using this command. Then move into one of the subrecord, behind which you want to move the marked one (position not on the #01 but to one of the other fields in the subrecord)  Then use this command again to move the marked subrecord.\fs22 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Copy Fields\i0 : (Alt+k)
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Copy the selected field into the reserve store.
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Release record\i0 : 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 If one finds a record which is locked although nobody is working on it.
\par \pard\tx709\tx1560\b 
\par \cf2\ul V\ulnone iew \cf3 
\par \b0 Show data in print form (then use Printer button to print)\b 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i Record in print format\i0 :  \b0 to print the current record\b 
\par \i List in print format\i0 :   \b0 to print the current result set\b 
\par \i Result set brief listing \i0   \b0 copy the brief listing into the display field\b 
\par \pard\li720\tx709\tx1560\i Internal format \b0\i0 Toggles the display field between tagged and formatted.\b 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i Index B (or Alt+j) \i0   \b0 A second index window is opened.\b 
\par \i Change display parameters\i0 :  \b0 The file D-WRTF is re-loaded (after external manipulation. Used for testing)\b 
\par \i List of result sets\i0 :   \b0 Show the list of result sets of the current session (Alt+r)\b 
\par \i Background fields\i0 :   \b0 Show the reserve store (Alt+r)\b 
\par \i Views\i0   \b0 Show the menu for production of `\cf2\ul\b ViewLists\cf3\ulnone\b0 `\b 
\par \i Display record\i0 :  \b0 how current record in listbox (Alt+r again)\b 
\par \i Last Help Text\i0   \b0 The help text most recently viewed.\b 
\par \pard\tx709\tx1560 
\par \cf2\ul F\ulnone ind \cf3 
\par \b0 The three possible ways or searching:\b 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i Find Menu\i0   \b0 For boolean searching (also Alt+f)\b 
\par \i Index 1\i0    \b0 Index window 1 is opened (also Alt+i)
\par \b\i Index 2\i0    \b0 Index window 2 is opened (also Alt+j)
\par \b 
\par \pard\tx709\tx1560\cf2 Ex\ul p\ulnone ort \cf3\b0 (There is an `\cf2\ul\b Export Help Text\cf3\ulnone\b0 `)\b 
\par \b0 Data can be written to a file. Its name can be set in the INI file (Command  OutputFile=...) This requires a set of Export parameters, whose name has to be set in the INI file as well (Command  ExportParameter=...)\b 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i Current record \i0   \b0 ... write it out into the file.\b 
\par \i Current result set\i0    \b0 will be exported it in the current order.\b 
\par \i Result set brief listing\i0   \b0 ... write it into the output file.\b 
\par \i Entire database\i0   \b0 all records in their internal record number order.\b 
\par \i Entire offline file\i0   \b0 (if there is one).\b 
\par \i New Export file \i0   \b0 Change the name of the file to be written into.\b 
\par \i Change export parameters \i0   
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Choose other parameters for exporting.\b 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i Delete export file \i0   
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 The meaning is obvious\b 
\par \pard\tx709\tx1560 
\par \cf2 E\ul x\ulnone tras \cf3 
\par \b0 For extended editing sessions, a few useful result sets can be formed to be inspected by the operator:
\par \cf4\b [Offline File]\cf3 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i Inactivated records \i0 
\par \i Edited Offline records \i0 
\par \i Locked records  \b0 (only with offline file of type .ALD) \b\i0 
\par \i Undo result set changes \i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Re-activate the original records
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Undo offline changes \i0 :
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Reset the offline file to its original state.
\par \pard\tx709\tx1560\cf4\b [Database (ONLINE)]\cf3 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i IN PROCESS records \i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Online records changed but not saved yet in the current session
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Corrected and saved \i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Records edited AND saved in the current session.
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Saved records  (new and edited) \i0 :
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 All records newly entered or edited, AND saved.
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i New records, not yet saved \i0 :
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 All newly entered records which are still offline.
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Locked records \i0 :
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 The database will be searched for locked records. Takes time depending on size. Aborted by Esc.
\par The records found will be collected in the "History list" (see Alt+e). Use the broom first to empty the history list, then you get exactly the locked records in it.
\par \pard\tx709\tx1560\b 
\par \cf2\ul G\ulnone lobal 
\par \cf3\b0 "Global" means acting on the current result set.\b 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i Global Replacements\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Invokes an input form to specify changes to be made
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Global Manipulations\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 This requires a Parameter file of  G-*.cPR type!
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Globale Delete\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 To delete the entire current result set.
\par \pard\tx709\tx1560\b 
\par \cf2\ul O\ulnone ption \cf3 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i Data Font\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Change the font of brief listings and index displays. Use small fonts, no proportional spacing.
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Subfield assistance\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 If subfields have been defined for a field (in the CFG), a special editing form is opened every time a field of this type is selected for editing. Switch it off if you don't like this.\b 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i Color change\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 If any change has been made in a record, it is displayed with a yellowish background, deleted records appear on a pink background. Switch it off if you don't like this.
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Save results on exit\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Result sets may be preserved for the next session, plus the entire current state of the offline file. You can thus interrupt and resume a session.
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\b\i Font + / Font -\i0 
\par \pard\b0\tab\tab Increase / decrease the font size in the listbox and write field. \b 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i DisplayFont +  /  DisplayFont -\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Change the size of letters in the display. This will work only if no such settings are contained in the text currently on display.  (Equiv.: Strg+u / Strg+d)\b 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\i DisplaySize\i0 
\par \pard\li1440\tx709\tx1560\b0 Flip the display field size between big and normal.In big mode, it covers the entire breadth of the window. Useful for help texts.\b 
\par \pard\cf5 
\par \i Private Menu Item\cf2\i0 
\par \pard\li709\tx709\tx1560\cf3\b0 This exists only if there is a command \cf1 MyMenu=...\cf3  in your INI file. This must be complemented by a command \cf1 MyFLEX=X xyz\cf3  referring to a  `\cf2\ul\b FLEX file\cf3\ulnone\b0 ` \b\f4 xyz.flx\b0\f1   This will then be executed whenever the "Private Menu Item" is selected.\b 
\par \pard 
\par  \cf2\ul ?\ulnone   (for Help)\cf3 
\par Besides this text you get some information on the current database, like the symbolic index names. You need these names if you want to enter commands in the "Find Command" field, like, for example, \f2 per shakespeare?
\par 
\par ?General=h genrl
\par ?Index help=h index
\par ?ViewLists=h view
\par ?Export Help Text=h exprt
\par ?FLEX file=h flex
\par 
\par \pard\qr\b0 1999-10-08\b 
\par }
 